An act relating to online protections for minors;
creating s. 501.1736, F.S.; defining terms; requiring
social media platforms to prohibit certain minors from
creating new accounts; requiring social media
platforms to terminate certain accounts and provide
additional options for termination of such accounts;
providing conditions under which social media
platforms are required to prohibit certain minors from
entering into contracts to become account holders;
authorizing the Department of Legal Affairs to bring
actions under the Florida Deceptive and Unfair Trade
Practices Act for knowing or reckless violations;
authorizing the department to issue and enforce civil
investigative demands under certain circumstances;
providing civil penalties; authorizing punitive
damages under certain circumstances; providing for
private causes of action; requiring that such actions
be brought within a specified timeframe; providing
that certain social media platforms are subject to the
jurisdiction of state courts; providing that if a
social media platform allows an account holder to use
such platform, the parties have entered into a
contract; providing construction; authorizing the
department to take certain investigative and
compliance actions; authorizing the department to
adopt rules; creating s. 501.1737, F.S.; defining
terms; requiring a commercial entity that knowingly
and intentionally publishes or distributes material
harmful to minors on a website or application that
contains a substantial portion of such material to use
certain verification methods and prevent access to
such material by minors; providing applicability and
construction; authorizing the department to bring
actions under the Florida Deceptive and Unfair Trade
Practices Act for violations; providing civil
penalties; authorizing punitive damages under certain
circumstances; providing for private causes of action;
requiring that such actions be brought within a
specified timeframe; providing that certain commercial
entities are subject to the jurisdiction of state
courts; providing construction; authorizing the
department to take certain investigative and
compliance actions; authorizing the department to
adopt rules; creating s. 501.1738, F.S.; defining the
term "anonymous age verification"; providing
requirements for a third party conducting age
verification pursuant to certain provisions; providing
for severability; providing an effective date.